**AtliQ Hardware Sales and Finance Report**

**AtliQ Business **

A hardware company specialize in  PCs, Mouse, keyboards, and printers.

**TASKS**

>  Utilized Power Query to Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL) data, performing tasks such as data extraction from multiple sources, transformations on various columns, and loading into desired tables, allowing us to manage data and analyze it thoroughly.

>  Built robust data models to discover complex relationships using Power Pivot, leveraging DAX measures, and facilitating the creation of new calculated columns and measures empowering advanced data analysis and insights generation.

>  Used Pivot Tables to create dynamic summaries and analyze complex data structures efficiently, streamlining decision-making processes.

>  Reports using Conditional Formatting, enhancing data clarity and visual appeal for more impactful insights.


**SALES REPORT**

> **Customer Performance Report** - Examined customer Net Sales and growth percentages over the years.

> **Market Performance and Sales Targets Comparison** – Compare market performance and sales targets in terms of Net Sales over the years.

> **Top 10 Products by Net Sales** - Evaluated product performance in different regions

> **Division Level Report** - Compared sales across various product divisions to identify trends

> **Top and Bottom 5 Products by Quantity Sold** - Analyzed best and worst selling products by quantity sold to optimize sales strategies and maximize profitability.

> **New Products 2021** – Analyzed the performance of New products launched in the year 2021

> **Top 5 countries** – Highlighted the sales of the top 5 best-performing countries

**FINANCE REPORTS**

> **Profit and Loss Report by Fiscal Year**: 
Net sales and COGS experienced significant growth, with a 204.5% and 208.6% increase, respectively, from 2020 to 2021.
Our gross margin for the year 2021 increased 197.6% as compared to 2021, reaching 218.2 Million USD.
However, the gross margin percentage witnessed a slight decrease (2.3%) during the same period.

> **Profit and Loss Report by Fiscal Months and Quarters**: 
Analyzed performance of each Quarter highlighting the patterns in Net Sales, COGS and Gross Margin

> **Profit and Loss Report by Markets**: 
Created a comprehensive country-level report tailored for regional managers' insights and decision-making.

> **METRICS**

> **Net Sales**: Total revenue generated by the company.

> **COGS (Cost of Goods Sold)**: Direct costs associated with producing or purchasing goods sold. For Example: Manufacturing Overhead, freight costs, etc.

> **Gross Margin:** Difference between net sales and COGS. Indicates how efficiently a company is producing goods and services, as well as its ability to cover operating expenses and generate profits.

> **Gross Margin%:** Gross Margin expressed as a percentage of net sales. Indicates how efficiently a company is producing goods and services, as well as its ability to cover operating expenses and generate profits.


